                                PASSHINTS
                           
 The 'comments' field ot the hstray utility can be used as a password hint. A 
good password hint will allow you to recall the password, but will not give 
anyone else measurable assistance to untangle it. 

 Good examples of hints are events and places in your past. Something that only 
you would know. For example, a House number in past residences. You may create 
a shorthand like 'ATL Bay', and only you would know that it means Atlanta,
BaySideShore RD, and it stands for House number 1394. (Not a real address)

 Another example of a good hint would be 'Lond KittyBD COl' and it would stand 
for a street in London, the birth date of my pet cat, and my favorite color 
partially upper cased. This would translate to 'Trafalgar99AZure' and I would 
be the only one to be able to put it back together. At the time of writing,
the above password would take 300 years to break.
 
 Bad examples are names, biometrics, birth dates, or commonly known information. 
For example:  peter1971 would be an easy target to anyone. Commonly known 
information is tricky. For example you cannot use anything written in this 
document.
 
 There is an optimum amount of information that allows you to know the pass for 
sure, and not let anyone else guess it. Too much information allows good guesses, 
too little will prevent you from recovering your pass. 

 On creating a strong password. Mix things up a little. Add upper case Letters
and Numbers into the mix. Let your imagination fly. Some substitutions are 
popular like replacing letter Os with 0s (the number zero). Examples like 
G00nyBird, P0larizeR, PartyP00per .... etc.  Replacing sub-phrases with 
reverse permutations is also a powerful technique. Examples:  niknuDd0nuts 
(Dunkin reversed)  maharbALinc0ln (the president reversed). One of the powerful
features of password mixing is that no dictionary look up based cracking attempt
will succeed. And the brute force attack may take a long long time.

  Last, but not the least important, create a safe backup storage for your passes.
A notebook in your safe, a calendar that is in plain sight are all good examples.
But once you master the hints, no one can de-scramble it.


