                               SECURITY

  Security today is nothing short of a black art. With the advent of
processing power, calculations that once took a month, can be done in minutes.
My guess is, a couple of years from now, this sentence will read similar,
but instead of minutes it will say seconds. For example, at the time of writing
the very computer I am writing this on, (which is several years old) it is
capable of a half a billion additions a second.

 1.) Why we need secrecy.

 An important question is why do we need security? Looking around, most
people are more similar than different. Comparable habits, matching possessions;
there should be no secrets. To top that, most of our achievements
- great or small - are only valid after we share it with others.

 For instance, examining the computer that I am using to write this document.
It is a great testament to sharing and no secrets. How about the interface
between the software and the machine? The machine and the processor? The video
output and the display? Looking at these examples, it is a wonder that we
do need secrets. So what makes us want security? Apparently, we do not really
need any.

 Real life, however is more complex. While there is enormous power in sharing,
there is also power in secrecy. Achieving something secretly, presenting it as
an accomplishment is possibly the number one facet that demands security.
For instance, look at corporations or governments doing just that. There,
everything is wrapped in secrecy. While mostly justified, today we know, that
many of the things that are kept secret where harmful things. This is where
the most important part of security comes from: PROCESSES.

 In those processes, things that are made secret, at one point in time
should be made public. Especially, if it has public implications. This is
why governments have de-classification schedules, corporations have
reporting obligations. Some countries have legislation(s) that compel it's
citizenry to use weak encryption.

 2.) The fear factor.

 Admittedly, the second most important factor in secrecy is fear. What if this
information gets to be seen by certain (undesirable) people? Fear is a powerful
motivator. And the level of fear sometimes exceeds the level of rationality.
But fear is also a paralyzing force. Most compromised data or systems are the
result of excessive protection, driven by fear.

 3.) Transactional secrecy.

 Transactional secrecy is the most used type of secrecy with computers. We want
our transaction details kept private between the transacting parties only.
As most transactions are initiated between parties that do not have a previous
arrangement for secret communication, asymmetric (public key) encryption is
used.

 4.) Privacy.

 Large part of our privacy is redundant. We are more similar than different.
In a society with less judgement, privacy is of little concern. However, in
some cultures judgement is strong, the need for privacy is paramount. While
cultures change little over time, we can defend ourselves with secrecy.

 5.) Greed.

  Greed is a mixed trait. It can be motivation for achievement, but it can
also be a powerful force of malice. Please note, that higher the greed factor,
the higher need for secrecy. Introspection of the situation is required. 
Examining the motivation from a new point of view. For example: Is it possible
to introduce sharing into the chain as part of lessening of the impact of greed.
(Thus lessening the need for security / secrecy) Think of a luxury house in a
broken neighborhood. What happens to that house long term? Or corollary. A 
dilapidated house in Luxury neighborhood. Will it be helped upwards? ...

 6.) Attacks.

 Malicious attacks against systems are common. However, most of it is done as
a technological feat, more like a show off. Only a small percentage of the
attacks are done for monetary gain. The attacks compromise the system in a
way, that allows the intruder to control key aspects of the system's
operation. Not to overstate this, but HSENCFS withstands intrusions like
that, as the data it stores exist in encrypted form only.

 Attacks attempt to get hold of the secret key / pass that is
used to gain access to the protected data. And this is how most break-ins
happen. The malicious entity hijacks your password entry dialog, and
intercepts your key / password. After that, the hijacker can access the
data just like you do. The only defense to that is vigilance, suspicion
and keen observation of your system. Remember, if you enter your pass into
a compromised system, you gave access to the malicious entity for good.
HSENCFS has measures to check your system integrity, you are encouraged
to use them.

 7.) Summary.

  HSENCFS supports most aspects of security. Privacy and secrecy can be
achieved by encryption. As only a small subset of our information needs
protection by encryption, HSENCFS is ideally suited for most situations.
One can specify a single sub directory for all secret data, or a whole
sub tree, so everything is encrypted that goes under it. The cypher text is
also accessible as a regular file, so encrypted files can be transported
across system boundaries. As the file is never decrypted, transport can be
more secure with HSENCFS than with conventional encryptions.

Please note that entering a password into a compromised computer will expose
that password. Be alert.


